encore comparison (#469)
nitrictech/docs: src/pages/faq/comparison/encore.mdx

export const description = 'Comparison to Encore'

# Encore vs. Nitric

Nitric is a framework that empowers developers to build complete cloud applications on their preferred cloud platform, combining infrastructure declaration and application code in one place. On the other hand, Encore is a development platform tailored for building cloud backend applications using the Go language, with deployment options for AWS or Google Cloud Platform. Both serve the purpose of simplifying cloud application development but operate in slightly different ways and cater to different specific needs.
These are the main differences between the two:

> 1. **Cloud Provider Support:** Nitric is provider-agnostic, capable of deploying to multiple cloud providers such as AWS, Google Cloud, and Azure. Encore currently only deploys to AWS or Google Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Cloud Provider Support:** Nitric is provider-agnostic, capable of deploying to multiple cloud providers such as AWS, Google Cloud, and Azure. Encore currently deploys to AWS or Google Cloud.
```

> 2. **Language Support:** Nitric provides multiple libraries for TypeScript/JavaScript, Python, Go, C# .NET and Java, allowing developers to choose their preferred language. Currently Encore only supports Go (with TypeScript scheduled for Preview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Language Support:** Nitric provides libraries for TypeScript/JavaScript, Python, Go, C# .NET and Java, allowing developers to choose their preferred language. Currently Encore supports Go, with TypeScript scheduled for Preview.
```

> 3. **Infrastructure Provisioning:** Nitric uses Pulumi by default for provisioning cloud resources, but also allows the use of [custom providers](/reference/providers/custom/building-custom-provider). Encore uses a proprietary provisioning engine via their online platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Infrastructure Provisioning:** Nitric uses Pulumi by default for provisioning cloud resources, but also allows the use of [custom providers](/reference/providers/custom/building-custom-provider). Encore uses a hosted provisioning engine via their online platform.
```

> 4. **Open Source:** As an open-source framework, Nitric itself is free and does not require a proprietary platform to deploy your applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Open Source:** As an open-source framework, Nitric does not require a platform or subscription to deploy applications.
```

## Code Comparison

To get a deeper understanding of the differences, let's see the same app built in both Nitric and Encore.

<CodeGroup compare>

```go {{title: 'Nitric', label: 'functions/hello/main.go' }}
package main

import (
	"fmt"

	"github.com/nitrictech/go-sdk/faas"
	"github.com/nitrictech/go-sdk/nitric"
)

func main() {
	mainApi, err := nitric.NewApi("main")
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println(err)
		return
	}

	mainApi.Get("/hello/:name", func(ctx *faas.HttpContext, next faas.HttpHandler) (*faas.HttpContext, error) {
		params := ctx.Request.PathParams()

		ctx.Response.Body = []byte("Hello " + params["name"])

		return next(ctx)
	})

	if err := nitric.Run(); err != nil {
		fmt.Println(err)
	}
}
```

```go {{title: 'Encore', label: 'hello.go'}}
package hello

import (
	"context"
)

//encore:api public path=/hello/:name
func Hello(ctx context.Context, name string) (*Response, error) {
	msg := "Hello " + name
	return &Response{Message: msg}, nil
}

type Response struct {
	Message string
}
```

</CodeGroup>

> The code snippet using Nitric showcases an API where HTTP request handling is achieved using faas.HttpContext, providing explicit control over the request and response objects. The code snippet using Encore, however, demonstrates an API where HTTP request handling is reflected through the function parameters and return types, with a specific emphasis on using defined structs for responses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code snippet using Nitric showcases an API where HTTP request handling is achieved using `faas.HttpContext`, providing explicit control over the request and response objects. However, the code snippet using Encore demonstrates an API where HTTP request handling is reflected through the function parameters and return types, with a specific emphasis on using defined structs for responses.
```

> The code snippet using Nitric showcases an API where HTTP request handling is achieved using `faas.HttpContext`, providing explicit control over the request and response objects. However, the code snippet using Encore demonstrates an API where HTTP request handling is reflected through the function parameters and return types, with a specific emphasis on using defined structs for responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Nitric example shows an API where HTTP request handling is achieved using `faas.HttpContext`, providing control over the request and response objects. The Encore example demonstrates an API where HTTP request handling is reflected through the function parameters and return types, with defined structs for responses.
```

| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| Language             | Your choice                                                                                  | Go                              |
| Lines of code        | 27                                                                                           | 15                              |
| Cloud Infrastructure | Inferred                                                                                     | Inferred                        |
| Extensibility        | [Custom providers](/reference/providers/custom/building-custom-provider) can be created      | No                              |
| Local simulation     | Built-in local simulator                                                                     | Built-in local simulator        |
| Cloud providers      | AWS, Azure, GCP and [Custom providers](/reference/providers/custom/building-custom-provider) | AWS and GCP                     |

> | Provisioning engine  | Pulumi by default, other custom providers can be created                                     | Proprietary provisioning engine |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Provisioning engine  | Pulumi by default, other custom providers can be created                                     | Hosted provisioning engine |
```
